Proficy iFIX OPC Client Version 7.46 Release Notes
GE Intelligent Platforms, Inc. (GEIP)

Contents

A.  System Requirements
	A1. Important Information about Windows XP and Windows Vista Firewall
B.  General Information
	B.1  New Features in this Release
C.  Known Issues
D.  Troubleshooting
	D.1  Automatically Starting the OPC Client
	D.2  Using Licensing Software

	
A.  SYSTEM REQUIREMENTS

The OPC driver requires the following software:

Operating System
*  Microsoft® Windows® Server 2012   64-bit (WoW64)
*  Microsoft® Windows® 8   32 and 64-bit (WoW64)
*  Microsoft® Windows® Server 2008 R2   64-bit (WoW64)
*  Microsoft® Windows® 7   32 and 64-bit (WoW64)
*  Microsoft® Windows® Server 2008 SP2
*  Microsoft® Windows® Vista™ Business or Ultimate Edition
*  Microsoft® Windows® Server 2003, SP2 or greater
*  Microsoft® Windows® XP Professional, Service Pack 2 or greater

A.1 IMPORTANT INFORMATION ABOUT WINDOWS XP and Windows Vista Firewall

There are Firewall settings that must be configured before you 
can access remote OPC servers. For more information, refer to the OPC 
Client online help topic Set Up Windows XP or Vista Firewall for Remote OPC Servers.


B.  GENERAL INFORMATION
*  In version 7.41a of the OPC Client, code changes were made to check for
   invalid formats of floating point values being returned from the 
   OPC Server, and to generate errors when invalid formats are found.
   These changes were made to support OPC Foundation Certification 
   of the OPC Client. 

   These changes may cause errors to occur in your current configuration,
   after upgrading to version 7.41a. To address this concern, the OPC
   Client driver (version 7.41a and above) now includes a check box 
   in the PowerTool on the Options menu > Setup > Advanced tab to "Disable 
   Floating Point Checks." When this check box is selected, the driver 
   does not check the format of floating point values returned from 
   the OPC Server. This is a global setting, and remains set until 
   you clear the check box, or the driver is re-installed. 

   By default, this check box is cleared, meaning the driver  
   will check the format of the floating point values returned from 
   the OPC Server and generate errors for invalid floating point values. 

*  If you are running on a Vista operating system and you are using 
   the OPC Client driver with iFIX, GEIP strongly recommends that 
   both applications run in the same service context. Mixing modes of   
   operation is not supported in Windows Vista. For example, if iFIX is 
   running in Service mode, the OPC Client must also run in Service mode 
   or if iFIX is not running in service mode, the client must run in 
   non-service mode. 

*  The OPC Client should be stopped before importing, reloading, or
   generating a process database.

*  7.x drivers no longer use the Period field in Mission Control. 

*  The OPC Client has an Overruns field in the Power Tool at the 
   driver, server, group, and item statistics level.  You 
   can use this field as a troubleshooting tool to assist in 
   optimization.  The presence of overruns do not necessarily 
   indicate a problem.  Any of the following conditions can cause 
   overruns:

   *  Bandwidth saturation on your network.
   *  Turnaround delays in the PLC.
   *  Overflowing message queues in the process hardware.

   Please refer to the OPC Client Help for more information on 
   overruns. You can find information on overruns by displaying 
   the driver statistics in the Power Tool, selecting the Overruns 
   field, and pressing the F1 key.

*  Do not install or uninstall a new version of the OPC Client 
   while an old version is running.  Always stop and exit the driver 
   before installing or uninstalling new version of the OPC Client.

B.1  NEW FEATURES IN THIS RELEASE

v7.46 (includes v7.45c)
*	Validated running under Windows 8 and Windows Server 2012.
*	Enhanced to allow logging of all OnDataChange events.

v7.45a (includes v7.45)
*  FixIOUser was removed as part of v7.42a.  In this version we've added a new 
   utility app which will be installed in the iFIX directory and will be executed 
   automatically at the end of install.  If the FixIOUser account is found on the 
   system, the user will be prompted to remove it.  If the user selects OK,
   the utility will automatically remove the account fromt he system.  If the 
   selects EXIT or if the FixIOUser account is not found, no aciton is taken.

v7.42a
*  To address security concerns, the FixIOUser account has been removed.  When
   configuring the server in service mode, you will need to use either a named
   account or the System Acount.


C.  KNOWN ISSUES
*  Analog Register and Digital Register blocks in iFIX databases do not
   support exception-based processing. In addition, the OPC Client does
   not support using the Text block with exception-based processing.

*  The OPC Client does not support exception-based processing for
   database blocks that reference items configured as data arrays.

*  Do not overlap data arrays when using RS-Linx v2.3 or greater.  If you do 
   overlap arrays, modification of arrays element may change elements
   that you do not intend to overwrite.  Consequently, we recommend if
   you require data arrays to overlap, use RS-Linx v2.2. 

*  If you shut down iFIX before shutting down the OPC Client Power Tool,
   you will not be able to restart iFIX. Shut down  the OPC Client 
   Power Tool before restarting iFIX. 

*  If you are using this OPC Client driver (v7.41) in iFIX 4.5, 15-digit 
   precision is supported for data values only, and not for signal 
   conditioning. Therefore, in iFIX 4.5, signal conditioning calculations
   are limited to 7 digits of precision. In other words, if the range of 
   your EGU limits exceeds 7 digits, a small amount of imprecision will 
   be introduced into the calculated result for signal conditioning.

*  If you are using iFIX 5.0 with this OPC Client driver (v7.41),  
   15-digit precision is supported for both data values and signaling 
   conditioning. 

*  Prior to iFIX 4.5, 15-digit precision was not supported. Instead, 
   you are limited to the 7 digit limits imposed by the use of single
   precision values.

   
D.  TROUBLESHOOTING
Only use the OPC Client server window for troubleshooting.  
When you are not debugging a problem, disable all debug messages and 
close the server window.  Leaving debug messages enabled or leaving 
the OPC Client server window open degrades driver performance.

If you experience difficulty installing the OPC Client, refer to 
the following sections for information on how to resolve the 
problem.

D.1  AUTOMATICALLY STARTING THE OPC CLIENT
When you install the OPC Client, the installation program creates 
a driver configuration file called nodename.OPC.  FIX uses this 
file when you automatically start the server.  If you subsequently 
change the name of your SCADA server after installing the OPC 
server, FIX cannot automatically start the server because the name 
of the node does not match the name of the configuration file.  To 
correct this, rename the configuration file to match the name of 
your SCADA server.  For example, if you change the name of the 
SCADA server from SCADA1 to SCADA9, rename the configuration file 
from SCADA1.OPC to SCADA9.OPC.

D.2  USING LICENSING SOFTWARE
You must use the latest GEIP Licensing software to avoid problems
with key checking when the OPC Client launches an GEIP OPC Server. 
The GEIP Licensing software is available from the GEIP support 
web site at www.ge-ip.com/support.


